oh hey Chris how is the co enough to be
a little man I don't know something
snapped off and it's just hurting
yikes sorry about that hey you know some
dogs sort of look like their owners
what the Pacemakers share the same
traits as their cases that's ridiculous
no it kind of works right I mean because
like the peer-based 600 is cool right
and you're arguably cool right the case
is super quiet and you've always been on
the soft-spoken side yeah think it's
totally true actually there's one more
thing we have in common
what's that well after the colonoscopy I
think I also support a 360 millimeter
radiator that like include push-pull or
the pure bass 604 be quiet offers a
tempered glass side panel sound damping
material and a highly versatile design
chips with a pair of powerful peer wings
two fans and intentional support for 360
radiators click the link in the
description for more info what's
cracking people welcome back to the
channel hope you're all doing well today
we are building a full-blown system from
the ground up the objective of this
build is going to be so that
theoretically those of you who might be
building the system of your own at home
can assemble it almost in real time as
you watch me build mine and so this is
really just to help those of you who are
maybe new to PC building if it's your
first time or if you just need a
refresher on how to assemble this stuff
so hopefully that's that that makes
sense and it's going to be a link for
your video because of that it's just
more of a casual and relaxed environment
to teach users or new users how to build
a PC I will say that even if you're not
building a Rison system so I'm building
an AMD Rison PC even if you're building
an intel-based computer you can still
apply 95% of what I'm going to be doing
today to your system it doesn't really
know the only real differences are the
CPU installation which is a breeze on
either platform and CPU cooler
installation which in itself can vary
greatly even on the same platform
depending on which manufacturer of cool
you're going with so that being said
ladies gentlemen what is what am I just
building this computer just for you guys
of course not this is actually going to
be my cousin's gaming PC that I helped
him assemble or that I helped him pick
out the parts for I actually did a video
you can go ahead and check that out
where I sort of make a parts list and
that parts list looks drastically
different from the hardware you see
before me because I went back to the
drawing board several times and was like
no that doesn't make sense that's stupid
so I've swapped it out from it was
originally going to be an Intel system
and now it's AMD Rison what do you know
it just seemed to make more sense with
his budget and stuff for those of you
curious the build we're looking at today
is around $1,200 MSRP you know give or
take 100 bucks or so depending on the
prices how they fluctuate all the time
and stuff but let's go ahead and go over
the parts shall we one-by-one I'm going
to do it really quick because we've got
a lot of building to do right afterwards
so first off our CPU of the hour is the
risin 5 1600 it's a 6 core 12 thread
part boosts up to 3.6 gigahertz I am
going to try to push that a bit further
with a manual overclock for Brandon he's
not into overclocking it's not too
familiar with it so I'm going to try to
get the squeeze the most performance out
of it as I can with the help of this
cooler now this was originally the the
cooler that Brandon bought and paid for
is this one right here the cryo rig h7 a
really great price performance cooler
however I forgot to tell Brandon to also
pick up or order an am 4 bracket to go
along with it because it doesn't come
with one so it's not supported with
Rison natively out of the box so it's
going to take probably a few weeks for
that bracket to get here so in the
meantime we're using this nock to a n II
know n H u 12s and tastic cooler Brandon
can decide if he wants to keep this one
or swap it out for the h7 once the
bracket arrives and that sort of thing
so that's that takes care of that we've
also got a be 350 tomahawk motherboard
from MSI this is a fantastic little
budget board I believe that this is one
of the ones that has the PL x chip so it
supports crossfire and all that jazz
it's really nice sort of a black and red
color scheme actually the red is very
subtle on the vrm heat sinks probably
shouldn't clash with anything else in
the rig but a fantastic little board
here that is going to be paired with the
gtx 1070 Super clock edition from good
ol EVGA this is still I think one of the
more affordable 1070 s that you can find
on the market however it's a blazing
fast card and it's certainly going to
kick ass and raid some frames for
today's system then
kids almost forgot about that down there
it's a 1800s I'm sorry the 16 gigabyte
kit where'd you get that 18 you good
bite kit from 16 gig kit of g.skill
ripjaws 5 ddr4 at 3000 megahertz I am
also going to try to overclock that to
3200 as that does help
Rison in gaming performance some
hopefully the be 350 tomahawk here is
able to handle that our storage
configuration consists of two drives the
first of which being a 250 gig WD blue
that's actually an SSD not a mechanical
hard drive like you might have thought
at first
yeah WD makes makes friggin SSDs now and
they actually called them the same name
as their mechanical drives which is
super confusing but nonetheless this
should be a pretty sweet SSD I've never
used it before personally or tested it
so hopefully it's a it works and it's
fast enough and we've got a one terabyte
WD black mechanical hard drive for his
for all the games and stuff obviously
the heavy storage needs media that sort
of thing I should mention that we are
installing Windows 10 64 bit on that SSD
as well we've got the C Sonic G Series
650 watt power supply this is a modular
unit and 80 plus gold certified yo so
incredibly power efficient and it's also
going to say it's a CCLC sonic see sonic
is a great power supply brand they are
very reputable so hopefully this one
will handle this this particular system
just fine and then finally our case of
the hour is the envy XPS 340 elite in
white
I gave Brandon a couple options he
really wanted a white case so I gave him
this one along with like three or four
other popular white cases and this is
the one he came out with was like this
is the one this one right here and I
completely agree I love this case myself
I've built a couple systems in it
already it's got a beautiful tempered
glass side panels got radiator support
at the front in case he wants to upgrade
the cooling solution later down the line
and it's just a really nice chassis for
not too much money and then finally just
to give ourselves a little bit of an
aesthetic bump for the rig I have
included some
fantex white sleeve extension cables to
make things look nice and pretty oh
there's one more thing as a thank you to
Brandon for letting me build his rig and
film it on the channel I am throwing in
free of charge and NZXT hue plus RGB LED
unit which is probably
the biggest baddest most awesome RGB
accessory you can add to a system here
in 2017 so that's going to definitely
spice things up and add some bling
definitely gonna give us a bling factor
for today's bill but those are all the
parts ladies gentlemen so I'm done
rambling I'm going to go ahead and start
building so if you guys those of you who
are building your own systems at home
right now what I'm going to suggest is
that you grab your cpu aka your desktop
processor and your main board or your
motherboard because that's generally
where I like to start in any given build
so let's let's start there all right you
all so you can see that I've taken the
CPU somewhat out of its packaging you
want to make sure not to touch it
unless you absolutely have to so it's
still sort of in a little box for now
but I've also removed the motherboard
from its anti-static sleeve and you'll
notice there's a bunch of other stuff on
this table I'm going to go over
everything
but when you take your motherboard out
of its box you want to also take out a
few important accessories along with it
so that they're just on hand when you're
ready for them the first of which is
your motherboard IO shield and we're
going to see what this exactly is for in
just a bit as well as your SATA cables I
would take out a number of SATA cables
equivalent to the number of two and a
half inch or three and a half inch
drives that you'll be connecting to your
system so in our instance we've got two
drives one SSD and one mechanical hard
drive so I've actually pulled out all
four of the cables since they come
connected but you can take those out as
well and then your your motherboard
manual so this is the tomahawk manual
you might need to consult it at some
point and then the other stuff on here
these are just sort of like tools that I
use when building a computer the only
one you absolutely need well let me get
the CPU out of here it's not a tool
really so we've got our the one you
really need is a screwdriver you'd a
Phillips head screwdriver this is a
number two phillips head screwdriver any
sort of length will do but i generally
prefer a slightly longer one Putin just
makes a little bit easy when screwing in
screws and stuff but magnetic tip also
helps a lot
not not required but definitely
appreciated makes things a bit easier
and then we've also got some cable
management accessories here so zip ties
generally there's at least one one or
two components
your build that will come with zip ties
but they're usually very few of them and
they're not like the right length or
they're too cheap and stuff like that so
I have my own on hand again this is not
necessary just kind of creates a cleaner
build for the cable management part and
then I've got some velcro ties in case I
need them and then of course some wire
cutters to cut the zip ties and stuff
pair of scissors also works just as fine
don't use a knife that could be
dangerous so those are the things that
we are going to be using for this build
and on that note we can actually install
our CPU all right so here's a close-up
look at our CPU socket and this is
basically where the CPU gets physically
mounted or inserted on the motherboard
and this one in particular is the am for
socket AM for is only compatible with
AMD rising CPUs at least at the time of
filming so don't try don't bother
putting in a in a non rising AMD chip or
an Intel chip god forbid bad things will
happen if you do so just stick to rising
for a m4 and you'll be good to go so if
you are building it Intel rig right now
I would suggest going to some sort of
tutorial maybe I'll link one I'll put a
card somewhere if I can find a good
tutorial on how to do that on the Intel
platform but for Ziff sockets for Rison
it's really quite simple all you do is
lift up this bar here there's a little
little bar that's got a little latch got
to push it to the side a little bit and
then lift it up like so and then get
your cpu out I will remind you guys not
to leave any fingerprints on your cpu
particularly on the top you don't want
to touch this top heat spreader here
that's that's a no-no you want to grab
it from the sides so here here's the cpu
alright you can grab the edges edges are
fine also do not touch the golden
contacts the golden pins I should say on
the bottom alright that's a no-no as
well that's very important you want to
keep that as clean as possible the way
you want to do this now is you want to
take note of the golden triangle there's
a golden triangle on one of the corners
of the CPU and you want to match that
with the small tiny ass triangle in the
corner of the socket you can see there's
a tiny little corner or a little ya
little arrow right in the corner there
that's going to match up with the gold
arrow on your cpu so the way you want to
do this is grab it with one hand one
finger on each side I use my thumb and
my index and you just go straight down
into the socket you'll notice that the
pins you have pins on the bottom and you
have pin holes in the socket so
obviously you're going to be slutting
all those pins into all those holes and
it should just drop down it should feel
snug it should feel like it's it's in
there and you can give it a little label
to make sure that it's fully down looks
good and then you take the lever and you
just push it back to where it was there
will be a little bit of pressure don't
let it scare you though and once it
locks once the lever locks back into
place
voila you've just installed a CPU now
some CPUs including the one that we're
using today come included with a stock
cooler and this one in particular comes
with the AMD rate aspire which is a
fantastic stock cooler but we're using
something a little bit better we're
using that not to a cooler that I
mentioned earlier at the beginning of
the video so we actually don't need
these mounting bars these mounting bars
on either side of the socket those are
for the for the stock cooler but we
don't need those I want to make way for
the not to a cooler bracket so we're
going to actually remove these by
unscrewing each of the screws there's
two screws on either side and upon
removing them the mounting bracket
should pop off just like that do the
same thing for the other side so we are
going to want to keep the a.m. for
backplate in place because that's how
we're going to mount our third party air
cooler here and this is where things get
a little tricky because there's no
standard method for instance calling CPU
coolers it all sort of differs based on
the manufacturer this knock to a cooler
installation will be vastly different
than an NZXT cooler versus a Thermaltake
cooler versus fantex cooler Corsair
cooler and so forth so this is really
the only part in the build where I'm
gonna have to leave you guys on your own
I promise so at this point I want you to
consult the manual that came with your
air cooler or liquid cooler and follow
it to Atif all the instructions there
and and you should be good to go make
sure that you're also following the
instructions in that menu
will that pertain to your particular
socket so again we're running a m4 right
here if you're using LGA 1155 with Intel
or LGA 2011 then you want to make sure
that you're reading the right
instructions for that socket but before
I let you go and and opt off to your own
installation with the cooler I will
teach you how to apply thermal paste and
it's fairly simple thermal paste is
basically a thermal interface material
that basically is a heat conductor
between the heat spreader of the CPU and
the base plate of your cooler it
basically allows for heat transfer
between your CPU and the cooler so that
you get better absorption better
dissipation and superior thermals if you
don't use thermal paste you're going to
have a bad day you always always always
want to use a proper application a
thermal paste so what you want to do I
have a little plunger here yours
probably looks a little similar I like
to do the grain of rice method so
straight in the middle
it's just how it sounds you want a grain
of rice size of thermal paste you can go
a little bit bigger I would say grain of
rice works for LGA 1151 for example and
similar because it's a smaller chip and
you don't really need that much rice and
slightly bigger of a heat spreader so
we're going to we're going to do the
green pea method the green pea method is
slightly bigger than the grain of rice
bada bing but a boom beautiful
alright and ideally the theory here is
that once you push this thing down which
yes smack it down on the CPU it's just
going to spread it across the entire
heat spreader and so you'll actually get
much fuller coverage than what it looks
like right now so on that note why don't
you go ahead and install your CPU cooler
wall I install mine and we'll we'll meet
back afterwards
sound good alright go for it good luck I
believe you
all right moving on to the memory so
installing the memory is one of the
easier parts about building a PC but
there are a couple things to be aware of
the first of which is that you have
these four dimm slots at least on this
motherboard there are four dimm slots
that you would actually populate and
they can actually be covered or blocked
if you have too big of an air CPU cooler
now this one is it's fairly slim so
we're not running into any clearance
issues but you might have one that's too
large and kind of encroaching on these
leftmost CPU I'm sorry DIMM slots and
that could be an issue hopefully if you
if yours is only encroach because
there's a fan on the side you should be
able to pop the fan off and it'll give
you more open access to those dim slots
and you can go ahead and stall your
memory modules but if you are just
running into some issues and there's no
way around it it's possible that you've
just got some incompatible Ram that is
just too tall the heat spreaders on the
RAM which is the the black enclosure
that you see here for example is just
too tall for the model of CPU cooler
that you've purchased you might want to
look into that online do some research
to make sure that it is incompatible
before you like some things back and
stuff but that can occur from time to
time assuming though that you don't have
any clearance issues and that you have a
free free access to all these dim slots
you want to consult your motherboard
manual to to find out which of these
slots should be populated with your
modules because it does matter it does
matter no matter if you have one stick
or four sticks or eight sticks you want
to make sure that you're putting them in
the right slots the only really wait the
only way to find that out is through the
manual so once you've done that I've
already found out that mine my two
sticks that I have here should be going
in the second and the fourth slot so
I've got that all figured out the next
thing I want to do to actually install
these suckers is I want to pull down
these side latches there's side latches
on in this instance there's side latches
on both sides of each dim slot some
other boards some other boards only have
a fold down latch on one side and the
other one is fixed so that applies to
you don't don't try to force one of the
sides down it's probably just not meant
to move but in this case both of them
fold down on either side now before you
install these suckers you want to make
note of the little notch that's the
bottom of the mall
you can see it right there it's
off-center which means that these are
keyed PCBs which means they can only go
in a certain way so you want to match
that notch up with the notch that's in
the dim slot itself just to ensure that
you're plugging it in the right way
otherwise you could damage the module so
once you've got that figured out go
ahead and line it up and applying equal
pressure on both sides of the stick you
want to apply force downward until both
of those side latches that you pop down
earlier snap back into place so we just
did the first one let's do it again for
this guy even pressure downward and
voila you can see that the latches all
for the latches are completely up right
where they were before so memory
installation complete very
straightforward and simple let's move on
to the next step all right we've got our
case now so go ahead and get your case
out of the box be careful with it
especially if you you've got something
like a tempered glass side panel it can
be very fragile and what we need to do
is sort of prep our case so that we can
fit our now prepped motherboard snugly
inside of it so I'm going to go ahead
and take off this side panel now if you
guys have a more conventional side panel
that's not tempered glass you probably
have you probably don't have these four
thumb screws directly on the side you
probably have two thumb screws on the
back or something similar depending on
the case so go ahead and remove the side
panel carefully be especially careful I
mean whether or not you have tempered
glass you should still be careful if
you've got it you can have like an
acrylic side panel window or something
like that because they can scratch very
easily
I would advise leaving the plastic wrap
on the side panel window until you're
absolutely done 100% complete with the
build I know it's tempting I know it's
tempting to peel it off the second you
see in guru ah but trust me they'll
thank me later it's not worth it now I'm
also going to remove the backside panel
and you guys should too just in case you
find any accessories back there a lot of
times case vendors like to put the
accessories inside of the case they like
to hide them either in the drive ke
you're in the power supply shroud
somewhere so go ahead and take your
accessories out you will be needing them
very soon in fact right now let's go
ahead and put the case on its side so
that the the main side is facing up and
the back side is facing down boom and
here's where you want to bust out your
motherboard IO shield that I told you to
remove from your motherboard box earlier
take it out of the plastic wrapping like
so it's like an ASMR video now and you
want to make sure that you line this up
properly
generally the shiny side if there's a
shiny side is going to face inside
inward of your case and they're really
nice outside or the really nice part is
going to be outside obviously because
you can see it and the way this goes so
you already know it's going to go either
this way or this way right with the
shiny side inside now it's just a matter
of which way is that go you can just
line it up with your motherboard or I
can just tell you a rule of thumb where
you see the little circles a little
audio circles that's going to go on the
bottom towards the bottom of the case
that's pretty much the best way to tell
and then just go ahead and pop it in and
this can be a little tricky it's hard to
know once you pop this in and it's sort
of yet you have to kind of do it by feel
and by sound so you hear that that that
was part of it popping in and you want
to just double check you have to look
really closely to make sure that the
entire perimeter of your i/o shield is
flush so you just want to double-check
push it firmly around the edges make
sure it's all good in there all right
now before you get too excited and go
about installing your motherboard
there's a couple things to mention here
first of which if you are using an air
CPU cooler tower sort of thing like like
I am right here then this doesn't really
apply to you but for those of you using
liquid cooled a IOT's of any kind that
have radiators and things like that you
want to make a note of whether or not it
makes sense to install your motherboard
first before you install your radiator
it can kind of depend to the most part I
would say the rule of thumb is you
install your motherboard first and then
your radiator but there are some
instances where the reverse is true and
makes more sense for that particular
configuration so you just want to sort
of think it through
not sure maybe just look up in certain
manuals to see what they suggest or if
it's not there look online but that is
something to point out the other
important thing to note before you
install your motherboard is that you
have your motherboard standoffs
installed now NZXT has already done us
the solid of pre installing these and
these are these little metal pegs that
are sticking out of the motherboard tray
that give your motherboard a little bit
of lift it kind of prevents the the
trace layouts on the back of your
motherboard making contact with the
steel surface of the case itself to
prevent any sort of shortages and things
like that so it's very important that
you have these in place again NZXT is
already put in here and if you're lucky
you'll actually get one in the middle a
peg in the middle that's good a little
bits got it a little bit of a tit on it
a little bit of a lift off it's a little
bit taller than the other ones it looks
a little different than the other guys
and that's just so that you can have
something to latch on to there's a you
know obviously a hole in the middle of
your motherboard that will latch on to
that middle peg when you're putting it
into place and just sort of lock it and
freeze it so that it's easier to work
with and more stable it's not moving
around and stuff it's really nice to
have one of those but if you don't no
worries you can still get by now the
other thing to be aware of is that not
all standoffs should be in the same
place for every situation for example
these are in the ATX configuration for
ATX motherboards which I in fact have
right now so that's good so I don't need
to change anything here but let's say
you were building for some reason with a
micro ATX motherboard and you needed to
rearrange the standoffs
to accommodate that particular form
factor you can either look in your case
manual or if it's not there it could be
etched directly onto the motherboard
tray where here it says you know micro
ATX ATX IPX and it gives you sort of a
legend and you can figure out where the
standoffs go for that particular
form-factor board now that we can go
ahead and mount our motherboard now that
that's all out of the way and I like to
grab the motherboard by either side I
really try my best not to grab it by the
CPU cooler that's a bad habit of mine I
know I need to stop and then I just sort
of just push it in there just gently I
like to look at the back of the
motherboard or behind the truth of the
case so I can align the i/o the rear i/o
with the i/o shield and then if all goes
well the middle peg the lifted peg will
latch on
and voila the motherboards not installed
yet don't put the case up right it'll
just probably fall out and something
will break
we still need to screw it down so we've
got some screws here you're going to
want to get the accessories out that
came with your case
with your chassis and then with your
hopefully metallic tip screwdriver this
is where the batalla tip really comes in
handy you're just going to go ahead and
screw those down
I should mention when you're installing
the standoffs the standoffs underneath
you want to make sure to tighten them
but you don't want to over tighten them
because they can strip and then they'll
just like do the infinite spin and
that's not good because then these
screws won't really go in at all and
then likewise when you're screwing in
these screws you want to make them snug
but not too snug again because you could
strip them and if you tighten if you
over tighten them then removing them
when you remove them you might actually
pull out a standoff or the standoff
might come along with it
and that can be a pain sometimes too to
work around that so you can expect with
a standard ATX motherboard that you'll
have to do you have to input about eight
or nine of these screws we only have to
do eight because the middle standoff is
is a raised one but if yours is not
raised and it looks like all the other
ones then you will have to put a ninth
screw right there and voila now we can
say our motherboard is properly
installed we can put the case up if we
wanted to which we're going to actually
need to do now to install the power
supply alright so I've got my power
supply here and sure enough it is
partially modular which means you have
some of the essentials that are just
wired hardwired into the power supply
and the accessories or the peripheral
cables if you will are separate so you
could plug these in as you as you see
fit depending on what devices you want
connected which is really nice
helps clean up cable management a bit
because you're only connecting the
cables that you need instead of
everything and trying to find a place
for the ones that you aren't using so
I've kind of already figured out which
ones I need the ones that are connected
are the standards essentials that most
people will be using anyway which is
your 24 pin ATX this goes to your
motherboard directly as does the
810 EPS this is the CPU connector and
then we've also got one four PCI Express
this is for your video card we've
actually got two eight pin connectors
these are six plus two pin design you
can see that they kind of split off and
this is going to be plenty for our video
cards so we don't need to add additional
PCIe cables to this guide what we do
need are our peripheral cables so we
need some SATA cables here both for our
two drives we do have an SSD and a
mechanical hard drive that our SATA they
use SATA connectors so we're going to
need to power them with this SATA plug
you can see that there's actually one
two three four SATA connectors on this
one cable so hopefully if we wire things
properly and this cable is long enough
we'll be able to wire both of those hard
drives with one cable two birds with one
stone so to speak and then we've got one
more of those this is another state of
cable exactly the same estate ax say the
power that is actually a little bit
shorter and there's only two connectors
on this one and this is going to be
going to our NZXT hue plus you may have
other SATA enabled devices that that
need to be powered such as let's say a
built in fan controller into your case
or there's molex as well Molech is a
completely different plug that did come
included we do have some molex cables
included with this power supply but we
don't have any molex devices that are in
the system so we don't need to use those
the other thing is with the matter of
which way do you want to install the
power supply I generally say face down
especially with cases now having
ventilation slots at the bottom with
dust filters as this one does if it
doesn't if your case does not have any
sort of ventilation at the bottom here
where the power supply mount is then I
would say flip it up top otherwise I
would I would go to the bottom now this
is a bit of a unique layout actually
there's there's plenty of cases that do
this but the s340 elite actually has
this bracket on the back with removable
thumb screws which you still for some
reason need a screwdriver to remove
that's silly and this is what you want
to attach to the power supply first
before you install it there I would say
most cases do not use this method most
cases you just
slop the power supply in that's the
wrong way you just put the power supply
in and then you would just directly
screw in four screws into the existing
holes but this is a little bit different
and ext is getting all clever with it so
I'm going to get my power supply screws
that came included with the case I think
you might also get some screws that come
with your power supply but more often
than not they're going to come with your
case so we're just going to mount this
guy on here
all righty okay now that before we
install the power supply I'm going to
connect all the cables of that need
right now because it's a lot easier that
way to connect them outside of the case
than it is to try to Penang GLE them
inside once the power supply is already
installed first say it's a cable and you
want to make sure that you're plugging
it in it's all labeled so it says PCIe
it's for graphics cards the CPU
obviously and then peripheral ide flash
SATA
which is what we want that's the one we
want right there so you can just pop
that sucker in and do the same thing for
our other one boom okie dokie so then
now what I like to do is sort of group
the cables together and push them
through the backside of the power supply
mounting area and just slot it in like
that and screw or down now some cases
will have you mount the power supply
from behind the motherboard tray this
way I'll just have you slotted in from
this side as opposed to behind the case
but every case is a little bit different
so again check yo motherboard or your
your case manual for details
all right oh it's good for now we're
going to leave the power supply cables
as is for now we're going to move on to
something else let's do the front panel
connectors oh how exciting
so here's a look behind your motherboard
tray and for starters you can see our
power supply that we literally just
installed with all the cables coming
from it but then you've got this whole
other mess of cables that seems to be
stemming from the front of your case
apart from these two these are these are
fan cables we'll talk about that later
and these are your front panel
connectors coming from the front
everything that's at the front of your
case including the power button reset
button power and hard drive LEDs USB
ports audio jacks etc that all needs to
get wired to your motherboard one way or
another and that's that's what these
cables are for so each one represents a
different thing got your USB 3.0 which
is the big blue one USB 2.0 which is
labeled and the these really tiny ones
these really tiny ones and make up your
your hard drive and power LEDs your
reset button power button etc and then
you've got special things that's pertain
to only some cases like your your HDMI
port here if you're into VR and an HD
audio for your 3.5 millimeter headphone
and microphone jacks so yeah we've got
these to plug in we're gonna have to
flip the case around so that we can
start wiring these guys correctly to
their appropriate headers all right so
we're on the other side of the case now
you can see I've already routed all of
my front panel connectors through the
various cutouts in the case now I did
this strategically I didn't just pick
any old cutout and stick a cable through
I actually routed each cable through the
cutout closest to its appropriate header
which is why the HD audio connector or
the HD audio plug is right next to the
HD audio connector on the motherboard
the USB 3.0 connector is right next to
the USB 3 header on the motherboard and
so forth
so that makes it really easy for plug in
and chugging plugging things in I'm just
going to go ahead and start with the USB
3.0 now the USB 3.0 in fact all of these
except for the really tiny cables really
tiny connectors are keyed so you want to
make sure that you're plugging it in
them in the right way or you're going to
have a bad
a break some pins I have broken many a
USB 3.0 pin before so I am a little
nervous right now there we go
USB three is secured moving on to little
guys move on the little guys a little
guys we've got power power LED and hard
drive LED the one that's the common one
that's missing here that the s340 elite
does not have is the reset button but
that's okay we're going to find we're
going to locate it on the motherboard
it's right here for this particular
board you're gonna have to look it up in
your motherboard manual each board is
different as to where these little guys
go actually sometimes it's printed
oftentimes will be printed somewhere on
the motherboard telling you where the
pins go and in this case we do we do see
that power switch is plus and minus that
way if you're not sure which way is plus
or minus on the switches I believe it's
the you'll see a little arrow indicating
indicating plus the positive side with
the no arrow is the ground and then
we've got the hard drive hard drive led
which is right there on the bottom
underneath could be pain there we go
alright little bastards are all plugged
in you can move on to our USB 2.0 which
is right next door this is also keyed as
I mentioned and if one of these pins
snaps off on any of these headers you're
pretty screwed also by the way for the
USB 3.0 I should have mentioned this
earlier I'm sorry if your motherboard
has two of those ports it looks like you
could plug it in either or see how this
one also has the USB 3 port down there
they are effectively identical so it
really doesn't matter which one you plug
it into just whichever one is more
convenient or what-have-you and then
this is the HD audio
thar she blows bar she blows front panel
connectors are installed ladies and
gentleman let's go ahead and do the fans
next
to start with the little wires first and
then we can work our way up to the Big
Kahuna's like our 24 pin ATX and PCIe
after we install the video card stuff so
fans
alright fans actually we don't even have
to cut right here you'll notice that
there are no fans at the front of the
case which is kind of odd and that's by
design because ng XE is expecting the
user to install an a io at the front of
the case which comes already with a with
fans so since it since we're not using
an area we're using a air cooler not a
liquid cooler we are going to install
two additional fans for my cousin so
I've got actually two NZXT fans these
are from my other NZXT case these are
120 millimeters they're exactly
identical as the existing fans in the
case so we're going to install them at
the front as intakes and to do that we
first have to pop off the front panel of
this case look you just pull it like
that not every case will have the front
panel pop off so easily some of them
have latches that need to be undone and
so forth so let's just install these
guys let's there's a little cable a
little cable cut out here you guys even
see what I'm doing yeah you can wear my
fan screws that
direct airflow now going straight to the
CPU cooler and soon-to-be the video card
which we're going to pop right there and
now we shall route all of the fan cables
to the various fan headers on the
motherboard we should first locate where
those headers are there's one here
there's one here and we got two up here
and then the fifth one is actually being
populated already by the CPU cooler here
this fan so you want to approach wiring
your fans the exact same way as you
wired your front panel connectors route
them through the the cutout that makes
the most sense nearest to the header you
wish to plug them into generally if if
you're dealing with a decent case there
will be a cutout at the very top a
couple cutouts if you're lucky which is
perfect for these top mounted fan
headers because they just kind of stay
out of sight out of mind and this bottom
one here I think I'm going to connect
the back fan because it seems the
closest sorry I know you guys can't see
anything because my FAQ thing you're
doing the way it's really no other way
to do this though okie dokie fans are
plugged in next up we are installing our
hard drive from premier and this is a
three and a half inch drive of course we
are going to install it in the only
three and a half inch drive cage in this
case and every every case is a little
bit different where the mounting points
exactly are go ahead and consult your
case manual for those specifications and
then once you know what you're doing you
can just pop in the drive or you know
there's there's different mounting
solutions some of them have little like
wing brackets that fold out the sides
other ones you just screw them in like
this
heck yeah go on old school you'll notice
that there are three threads on either
side of a three and a half inch
mechanical drive for the most part
you're going to want to screw all those
down don't skimp don't think like oh I
only need to put two in no but that's
the run in because there are moving
parts in the hard drive yo those moving
parts like a like a needle and a platter
and a little little little green man
there's a little green man in every hard
drive no there's really not and if your
hard drives not mounted properly and
securely in your case then all those
moving part
can end up making lots of vibration and
noise which is quite unsettling make
sure you do your job
screw em all in now this is the
unfortunate design I should have thought
to plug their screw this in earlier
there's only one screw hole here on the
side the case only gives you one screw
hole so I'm screwing it in with my hand
which is not good I'm going to get a
smaller screwdriver I have a little
screwdriver head here that's really the
only thing that I could fit inside of
this tight space whew is just a tip whew
and should get it tight enough though
hidden all right there's our hard drive
look at him look cute he's all secured
and mounted and stuff hey what is this
but it's what it is right here this
looks awfully familiar this almost looks
like that one SATA cable that we had
plugged into our power supply from
earlier oh my lord it is and it is also
it's the same l-shape my goodness so you
want to line that up and just push it in
just nice and easy oh yeah right there
that that is firm that is real firm say
the power has been connected but wait
there's more you need data so let's
let's get a data cable remember the
other accessory that I told you to get
out from your motherboard box way back
at the beginning of the video yeah it's
time it's time to whip one of those out
if you know what I mean so we're going
to get one of these now these are these
have two different connectors or two
different ends you can get flat you get
flat on both sides or you can get one
flat and one right angle it just depends
on what the manufacturer has given you
usually they give you two of each and
generally if you if you're using the
right angle I like to save that for the
drive itself as long as it makes sense
to do so so that looks pretty good and
then the other end just goes into one of
the SATA ports that's on your
motherboard let's cut to a b-roll shot
of that now a couple quick things to
note about the SATA data cable before we
move on first of which is that you will
hear inaudible click once you've
inserted it far enough into the port
letting you know that you've established
a
to your connection you can even tug on
it it won't budge unless you push down
on the metal latch only then will it
release the other thing is how do you
know which of these ports to plug into
them and they all look the same but if
you consult your motherboard manual it
will tell you which of these ports are
wired to the native chipset on board
this one being V 350 and which ports are
wired or controlled by a third-party
add-on controller add-on controller is
good to have but if it's it shouldn't be
your first choice you should always opt
for the native chipset on your
motherboard in this case all four of
these ports are natively controlled by B
350 so it doesn't really matter which
ones we go with but if you were to
connect to let's say an SSD
in particular it doesn't really matter
for hard drives too much but I'd still
recommend native chipset anyway if for
sure an SSD you want to be sure that
it's plugged into ports controlled by
the native chipset otherwise you could
incur a bit of a slowdown in certain
situations so just to be safe
native chipset check the motherboard
manual good ok you know what while we're
here why don't we just stick in another
one so she said for our SS day that
we're about to install yo sounds pretty
good to me alright I don't like the way
that looks I'm going to do it flat like
the other one it will be creeping up
behind him alright there we go beautiful
ok now we got to install our SSD alright
so as I've been saying throughout this
video every case is a little bit
different and that means you don't know
I don't know where you're going to be
mounting your SSD to I don't know if
it's going to be above a power supply
shroud like this one if it's going to be
behind the motherboard tray maybe in a
drive cage somewhere at the front you
just you just don't know with SSDs these
days they're just so darn small they can
fit pretty much anywhere so case
manufacturers have come up with so many
clever options for mounting them in
different places but consult
once again your case manual find out
where you should place your SSD often
times they give you more than one choice
as to where you want to mount it I would
I would mount it in the best place
that would be my recommendation and
there are four threads at the bottom of
every SSD
there's also threads on either side of
the SSD so depending on the case maker
that will determine where you're
screwing things in in this case
obviously we're doing it from the bottom
I like it better on bottom personally oh
by the way I took the sticker off the
SSD already because it was hideous oh
you know what this is an important
lesson before you mount your SSD you
might want to think about plugging it in
first with your SATA and data cables if
it makes sense again use it as a
case-by-case sort of suggestion but in
this particular situation it does make
sense to connect the cables first before
mounting it down because the port is
hard to get to once the drive is mounted
flat against the chassis so I've got one
cable for you here there's the data and
now we give it a lot when I say power
that you're supposed to come out when I
say power ruined it so let's go ahead
and mount this just the same as we did
with our hard drive you might need to
bend the cables a bit you need to flex
them a bit just to just to get them to
play nicely sometimes my forearm Oh
working that out yeah I've been I've
been screwing a lot lately I don't even
mean that in like a dirty way I've been
using the screwdrivers very frequently
let's see while we mount the hew plus
over here you're not always [__]
I should have mounted the hew plus here
because a little bit bigger I want a big
fat thing in the middle I'm going to
swap it I'm swapping it I don't care
so the hue plus is also two and a half
inch form factor although it's kind of a
fatty fatty form factor because it's
like thirty times as thick as this thing
down down them to the powder blush route
done screaming screaming sound scary so
this is the hue plus this is the
the brain if you will it controls all
those various effects and colors ladi
Dadi blah and this particular kit comes
included with some strips that you can
attach to the brain LED strips that is
voila so I realize that this part of the
bill that doesn't apply to most of you
because most of you aren't building with
a hue plus however you can check out my
video on view plus if you want more info
on it for now I'm just going to go ahead
and take care of this but we're going to
skip it for the purpose of this video
and move on to the next part alright
guys now we're plugging in our meeting
connectors they're not really called
meaty connectors so just the bigger
plugs certainly much bigger than the
front panel connectors or the fan
headers so starting with the the 24 pin
ATX is our supplemental motherboard
power connector and it's it's the big
one it's the big fat chunky one it's
hard to miss 24 pins if you want to
count them just to be sure and you'll
notice that there's a clip on one side
and no clip on the other alright
remember that clip because there will be
a little edge sticking out a little
latch on one side of the connector so
the clip will go on that side so yes
these are keyed it will only go in that
one way so my hands are in the way boy
boom
alright plugged in next up we've got our
8 pin CPU connector and this looks like
two cables but it's actually just one
and it splits off into two the part the
the end that splits off into two is the
part you want to plug into your
motherboard sometimes when it's split
you'll actually have a little mechanism
to lock the two halves into place so
they stay together like so and then the
header on the motherboard that you plug
this into is typically located in the
top left corner right there so you just
got a feel around for it this one this
port here can be a pain especially if
you don't have much room and hopefully I
remember to put an annotation when I was
talking about installing water cooling
radiators that sometimes it's best to
install your power supply first and then
your motherboard and then plug in this
gosh-darn cable
before you install your radiator
sometimes the radiator if you're
mounting at the top of the case can
easily block your 8 pin cable that's
good though there's a cutout at the top
of the case fortunately Thank You NZXT
for that just route it right through
well there's there's our LED strip
falling down and then BAM next up we've
got our PCIe extensions for our graphics
card but we don't have a graphics card
installed yet so we should do that first
alright and moving on to our last
component for today which is the
graphics card where we made it very
exciting stuff and this is a really
straightforward installation the first
thing you want to do is consult your
motherboard manual and find out which of
these PCIe by 16 slots you should be
populating typically it's the top slot
but you want to check the manual just to
be safe and what you want to do first is
lower the latch that's at the end of the
slot you wish to populate and then once
you do that actually kind of opens it up
for access and then you need to remove
some expansion slots and in the number
of expansion slots you need to remove
depends on how wide your card slot width
is so this is a 2 slot card you can see
it's it's got 2 rows to these little
rows here
you can look up the specs the official
specs on the manufacturers website just
to be safe so you're going to remove
since we have a 2 slot card here we need
to remove 2 expansion slots the first
one being the one that's just adjacent
to the the slot itself and then since
we're going to need room below that we
have to remove the the expansion slot
beneath that first one so very simple
process here you're going to want to
undo the thumb screws in the s340 elite
here there's actually a like a second
panel or there's I could be a big panel
that you have to remove first in order
to access the thumb screws so I'm going
to go ahead and do that first most cases
don't have this so that's one less
little step you have to worry about all
right so that panel is gone and then you
just remove the two thumb screws that
you need to access through their
expansion slots there
haha look at that alright beautiful so
now we have room for the video card
we're going to go ahead and just hold it
gently and you want to just sort of line
it up with the with the slot and you'll
see that there's actually a notch let's
see if there's a notch in the video card
connector and there's that should line
up with a notch in the motherboard slot
and very much like your memory you'll
hear a nice click very satisfying and
noticeable click and then you just go
ahead and screw the thumb screws back in
you want to make sure that they're
fairly tight you don't want to over
tighten but make them snug now this
plate back on and finally you want to
connect your PCIe connector very very
similar and how we connected our eight
pin EPS CPU connector and our 24 pin it
is keyed there's a clip on one side and
also a latch on one side of the
connector of the the video card itself
you want to line those up and if you're
rocking a similar plug like this where
it's a 6 + 2 design then you want to
make sure that those are sort of
connected there's there's a little bit
of a ledge at the bottom at the base of
the the plug itself and you want to make
sure that that is flush before you plug
it in if you do it all correctly it'll
go in like so and then then you want to
route this obviously through the best
possible grommet you could route it
through this right here this is the sort
of sidebar at least for the s340 or it
could go down below into the basement
but I kind of like it behind just makes
it a little bit more discreet all a
matter of preference on how you like the
look okay and then obviously you always
want to make sure that all the plastic
wrap that comes on your fresh products
is removed before operation you don't
want any of this stuff getting too hot
these computer parts can get really
thirsty they want melted plastic in your
ribs alright I think
good I think we're good I think on that
note we just got to take care of some
cable management which is on the back
side and we will be completely done with
my cousin's PC and hopefully you'll be
done with your soup so where do you even
begin with something like this this is
pretty intimidating if it's your first
time or you're not too familiar with how
to do this but it really is quite
straightforward and honestly guys I've
done this is sort of an old video but I
have a in depth video on cable
management so you can go check that out
for even more detail than I'm going to
give here this is going to be more
high-level but essentially you have to
see at first what you have to work with
in your case so this one in particular
has a huge basement there's just like
this huge enclosure that goes over the
power supply and the drive cage and you
can just stash a bunch of cables down
here and it wouldn't be visible on the
other side whatsoever which is your
beauty side you want that side to look
nice this side more or less it doesn't
matter as much it's kind of a personal
preference thing but for me since I have
this nice basement to work with I am
going to be taking advantage of that and
stuff on a lot of cables in there being
a little bit lazy but hey if it's if
it's there for a reason I'm going to use
it now for those of you who don't have a
nice big basement to stash a bunch of
cables in you probably just have to do
it the old-school way and sort of a tie
down get the group together cables all
right you have to find out what makes
sense when you bunch them up all right
which which cables can be bunched
together and using zip ties in tandem
with the tie-down points that are around
your motherboard tray should you have
them is always a good idea that keeps
the cables really flat and up close
against the motherboard tray so that you
can fit your side panel on once you're
all done the other thing that this case
has that not many do are these little
cable clasp this is not actually very
common on most cases these days but it
is it is very handy I'm going to be
using these as well to aid in my my
cable quest obviously want to make sure
to connect your extensions all the
extensions that you've used to their
appropriate cables coming from the power
supply otherwise your components won't
work so fortunately thanks to NZXT is
brilliant cable clasps here I don't
really need to use many zip ties at all
but I will use it for our eight pin CPU
connector here
since sort of off in right field once
you're done with your zip tie you can go
ahead and snip it off with your wire
cutters or scissors whichever one and we
didn't even have to use any velcro
straps because the cable management in
this case is super boss but there you
guys have it
there's cable management's pretty much
done again like 90 percent of this was
just shoving stuff into the end of the
basement but but hey it works and it's
not too difficult to to redo or rewire
things or service it in there if we
absolutely need to but hey holy crap
our build is done that's a horrible
angle let me go ahead and change things
up for you so you can see what it looks
like all powered on alright guys so I
discovered the audio clip for this outro
was actually corrupted after I sent the
rig home with my cousin so I got to do
this lame voiceover while you watch me
turn the system on for the first time
but technical catastrophes aside the
build was a success the rig posted just
fine and seems to be in healthy working
condition so hopefully those of you
building at home find yourselves in the
same boat and you're now ready for
Windows installation or whatever
operating system you choose to go with
I'm sorry if this video didn't have the
same amount of polish as some of my
other content because it was just really
long and kind of difficult to edit but I
hope it helped you along with your own
build and leaves you with a new sense of
confidence and appreciation when
assembling a PC so if you enjoyed the
video don't forget to toss me a like on
it before you go and feel free to
subscribe to the channel for more tech
stuff on the way have a good one guys
thanks so much for watching and I'll see
you all in the next one